docs: add more component examples for "Basic" components (#5581)
SchwarzIT/onyx: apps/showcase/content/en/components/03.basic/flyout-menu/index.md

---
title: Flyout menu
componentName: OnyxFlyoutMenu
---

> The flyout menu is used to build up navigation or action menus that are placed relative to a parent element and are shown on click or hover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flyout menu is used to create navigation or action menus that are positioned relative to a parent element and appear when the user clicks or hovers over them.
```

## Examples

### Basic

> A pre-defined [system button](/components/buttons/system-button) will be used as trigger button if not defined otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A predefined [system button](/components/buttons/system-button) is used as the trigger, if it is not overridden via the `button` slot.
Options for the menu must be passed in using the `options` slot.
```

Each option supports a label, icon and optional link by default but custom content can be passed as slot if needed. For more information, please refer to the [menu item](/components/basic/menu-item).

<steps>

::step
#headline
Hover

#default
The flyout menu is triggered on hover by default.

:component-example{name="Hover"}
::

::step
#headline
Click

#default
Optionally, the flyout menu can be triggered on click.

:component-example{name="Click"}
::

</steps>

<br />

### Custom trigger

> The default trigger button can be overridden with any custom component. However, the trigger should be an interactive element such as a button or link. Make sure to bind the `trigger` slot property to the custom trigger, otherwise the flyout will not open/close on hover or click.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default trigger button can be overridden with any custom component. However, the trigger must be an interactive element such as a button or link. Make sure to bind the `trigger` slot property to the custom trigger, otherwise the flyout will not open/close on hover or click.
```
